Well, happy new year, everybody.
Welcome to 2026.
Yeah, you look excited about that.
I don't know about you, but I love a new year.
And for some of you, maybe last year was a fantastic year.
2025 was like the high point of your life so far.
Maybe you got the girl in 2025.
Maybe you started a business in 2025.
Maybe you finally got to do that overseas trip in 2025.
And you got to experience all of that as well.
For Kathy and I in 2025, we finally got our first grand baby.
So I have a photo over there, yeah.
Little Eloise.
She arrived just before Christmas.
So we're looking forward to one day being able to go back to Australia to be able to hold her and cuddle her and everything else.
But for now, we just get a steady stream of photos coming through every day.
This is her sleep.
This is her yawning.
This is her doing all the things that babies do.
My goal for 2025 was to lose 10 kilos.
And I'm really happy to report that I've only got 18 left to go.
So I'm right on track.
But I know for some of us, maybe 2025 wasn't all that we had hoped for it to be.
Maybe for some of us, we had to face some stuff in 2025.
And it's kind of things that were unexpected and maybe even disappointing a little bit.
Maybe they're things that kind of shaped your whole year because they kind of just kind of came out of the blue and you weren't really sure.
We weren't really prepared for some of those things that came in.
And like most of us, I think sometimes we get to New Year's Eve and we kind of hope and pray that at the stroke of midnight, magically all of those things from last year will just disappear and that we can step into the new year with like a fresh clean piece of paper and
a fresh new year.
But oftentimes what I find is that those things from the previous year have their way of carrying themselves over into the new year.
And for some of you, you're going to be carrying some things from last year into this year.
But for others of us, maybe you're carrying some things from 10 years ago.
And it's just made its way through down through time.
And as you stepped into 2026 this year, maybe there's still some things there that you had to deal with or it turned up.
way back when, and they're still around today.
And we want to talk a little bit like that today, and there's going to be some that, even the weight of carrying all of those things, it leaves you feeling exhausted.
And here we are, only the 4th of January, and maybe you're already feeling a little bit tired, and you're already feeling a little bit tired from all of that stuff that you've been carrying through.
Today, I just want to let you know, you're not alone.
All that stuff that you face, all the stuff that we all face,
that we're not alone in any of that.
And we're gonna look today at a story from scripture that maybe you've never seen this story before.
It's a story in the Old Testament.
And it's a story that doesn't oftentimes get shared in church.
And maybe you've never heard of this story before.
It happened about a thousand years before the birth of Jesus.
And it's a story that we find in the book of Ruth.
And we're gonna read through
chapter one of the book of Ruth today.
And as we pick up this story, we see two women.
There's a younger one named Ruth and her older mother-in-law.
They're on a journey and they're traveling from a place called Moab and they're heading towards a place called Bethlehem, which was Naomi's hometown.
So they're heading back to their hometown and we pick it up in verse 19.
It says this, when they came to Bethlehem,
the entire town was excited by their arrival.
Is it really Naomi the woman asked?
Naomi had been gone for like over 10 years and they hadn't seen her for that length of time and when they finally saw her they're asking this question, is this really you?
You've changed so much and not only physically had she changed but also when you listen to what the words are coming out of her mouth
There's also a change that's happening internally as well.
In verse 20, Naomi says this.
She says, don't call me Naomi, she responded.
Instead, call me Mara, for the Almighty has made life very bitter for me.
I went away full, but the Lord has brought me home empty.
Why call me Naomi when the Lord has caused me to suffer and the Almighty has sent so much tragedy upon me?
She's saying to them,
Don't call me Naomi anymore.
I'm not that person anymore.
I don't resemble that person anymore.
That person that you used to know no longer exists.
Don't call me that.
Instead, I want you to call me Mara.
For people living in ancient times, what you called somebody, when you had a child and you named your child, it was a pretty big deal.
And what they would do is they would take the child and the meaning of their name was
wrapped up with, it was almost like a prophetic word that was spoken over the child.
And it was connected to their destiny.
It was connected to their future and to their purpose.
And so that's what they were.
It was a big deal when someone wanted to change their name.
And I know for our family, our kids, I know when our kids were born, we put a lot of prayer and a lot of time and thought into what we were gonna call them.
We thought as a parent, this is a great responsibility to be able to help shape the life of this young child
So we put a lot of prayer intentionally about what we would name our kids.
So when our oldest was born, his name is Riley Aidan George Swan.
I know that spells rags, but that was his name.
We called him Riley Aidan George Swan.
Riley means mighty one, Aidan fiery one.
George means farmer.
And when we looked at his life and we were praying into his life, the picture that we got of someone who would stand up for other people
who had a kind heart towards others, but would also stand and fight for them as well.
And that was the picture that we had over him.
And so that's what we named him.
When our daughter came along, her name is Keely Brook.
And Keely Brook means refreshing.
It means beautiful one.
And that's exactly who she is and what she is.
She's bringing so much refreshment to other people.
We have another daughter that we didn't get to name because she's our adopted daughter, but her name is Victoria.
And it means victorious one.
And we agree with that around her life as well.
She's had to face so many troubles and so many obstacles, but we've seen her rise victorious over every one of those things.
And then our youngest was born and her name is Zion J.L.
Swan.
But when we, when she was, we knew what we were going to call her before she was even conceived.
We knew that we're going to call her Zion.
Zion means dwelling place of God.
And so we were going to call her Zion, but then we struggled to kind of come up with a second name.
So it was like, well, what kind of goes with Zion?
It's kind of a strange name to have go with Zion.
So we just let it sit there for a while.
But then one day I was in a meeting like this, and I was listening to a friend of mine.
And she was speaking about this girl from Scripture, whose name was J.L.
And in Scripture, if you read the story, if you're familiar with the story, she was the girl who, when her country and a neighboring country were at war, the king of the enemy
came into her tent one day, and she ended up, he was trying to find a place to hide.
So she said, come in here, you can hide in here.
And she gave him a glass of milk, put him to sleep.
And then while he was asleep, she got this massive hammer and spike, and she nailed it through his head.
And I thought, what a cool story, and what a cool girl.
So that's what we call our daughter, Zion J.L.
Swan.
We sleep at night with one eye open.
But that's what we called it.
And I went to my trusty name book to find out what is the meaning of the name JL.
And as I opened up my book, it said there that JL meant bringer of light.
And I thought, oh, dwelling place of God, bringer of light.
What an amazing name.
That's an amazing name.
So we called her Zion JL Swan.
It was only a few years after that that I was writing an article on names.
And I wanted to make sure I got all my facts straight.
I went to my trusty name book to make sure I had everything written out properly about what everything meant.
And when I came to Zion's name, when I looked up the word JL, it didn't say bringer of light, it said wild mountain goat.
And I thought about that from a, how did that even, I had not, so I thought maybe there's a mistake somewhere.
So I went online, I Googled, I did everything that you do when you're in a panic and to try and find what this name meant.
And the only variation I could find of that name was herder of wild mountain goats.
And then I realized I had to try and talk to my wife and tell her what we had done.
We had just named our child a goat.
That was her future and her destiny and not only a goat, but a wild mountain goat.
And when I think about Zion's life, that's exactly what we got.
She is our wild child.
She's just crazy.
She's out there all the time doing crazy things.
And she doesn't actually even mind the fact that she's called a goat these days, because now these days apparently goat stands for greatest of all time.
So she rubs that in our faces as well.
But that was their names.
But Naomi had an amazing name.
She had a very beautiful meaning to her name.
In its basic form, it means pleasant, sweet, delightful, and beautiful.
But in Hebrew, it's also translated to say my joy and my delight.
In other words, there was a day when Naomi's dad, when she was really little, he picked her up and he held her in his arms and he looked at her in those big brown eyes of hers and he said, Naomi, you bring me so much joy.
You're my joy and my delight.
So they named her Naomi.
But here she is years and years later as an old woman.
Her father has long since passed away.
And now she's saying to these people, I don't wanna be known as that person anymore.
Instead, what I want you to call me
is I want you to call me Mara.
Mara means bitter and sorrowful.
She said, I want to be known as that now.
I don't want to be known as Naomi.
But then she doesn't stop there.
She goes on to say that the person she holds responsible for her pain is God.
For the Almighty God has made me very bitter.
I went away full, but the Lord has brought me back empty.
In other words, when you last saw me 10 years ago, I had everything together.
My life was full.
Everything was going my way.
Everything was going great, but now I have nothing and I'm empty.
Why call me Naomi?
I'm not that person anymore.
The Lord has caused me to suffer and the Almighty has sent such tragedy upon me.
And the question I have with reading this is simply what went wrong in this woman's life that would cause her to become so bitter?
And what hope is there for us when we think about this story and what hope was there for her
to be able to move forward in life, or is all she gonna face for the rest of her life sorrow and disappointment?
What we're gonna discover today is that through Naomi's life, that she was actually just about to make a decision that was gonna change her life forever.
And not only her life, but those that were closest around her, and not only them, but as you look down through history, millions upon millions upon millions of lives would be changed because of a decision that she was about to make.
And it's so simple when you hear the decision that she makes.
My concern was is that every time we hear something simple, we tend to discount it.
When you hear like, maybe I can identify a little bit with what Naomi went through.
But then when you hear what the solution is, you think, oh, that's just too easy.
It can't be right.
I've got to do something way harder.
I've got to do something a lot more complicated and a lot more in detail.
But if you can come on this journey with me today, and if you're brave enough,
We can take what she learns in this story, what she applied to her life, and maybe we can see whether we can apply this to our life as well.
So, and maybe for us, it might mean that our 2026 may be completely different to what may be set out in front of us right now.
So in order to get there, what we need to understand is what happened in Naomi's life.
So to do that, we're going to go back to the very beginning of the book of Ruth, chapter one and verse one.
And we're just going to go through that and see what comes together.
Verse one says this, in the days when the judges ruled in Israel, a severe famine came across the land.
Now, when the writer of Ruth is talking about the land, they're referring to the promised land.
Maybe you've heard about that before.
The promised land was what God had promised to His people that He was going to take them out of slavery and He was going to take them to this land that was flowing with milk and honey.
And in fact,
When they finally got there, they sent spies out into the land and it took two guys to carry one bunch of grapes.
That's how fruitful this land was.
And the Bible records all of that that's in there.
And it was a fruitful place.
This was God's promise to these people.
But when we hear about it now, it says that there's a severe famine has come across the land.
In other words, what God had originally intended to be a fruitful place
And a place of blessing was now going through a season of famine where there was lack.
There wasn't enough.
There was all of that going on.
So what originally was intended to be a blessing is now in famine.
So a man from Bethlehem in Judah left his home and went to live in the country of Moab, taking his wife and his two sons with him.
The man's name was Elimelech and his wife was Naomi.
Their two sons were Melon and Chileon.
There are Ephrafites from Bethlehem in the land of Judah.
Naomi's family was Ephrafites.
That's kind of a word we don't even use here today, but what it basically means is that they were an old family.
They belonged to an old clan.
They were an important family, and in their society and in their culture, they would be considered a very influential family.
And what Naomi's husband did is what no God-fearing community-minded Jew would do,
is that he took his family away from their city, away from their community, and he took them to a foreign land.
So he was seen as someone who was leaving when his people needed him the most.
He'd made the decision to leave there and go somewhere else.
He was looking out for himself, and he was looking out for his family, but he made that decision to go and do that.
And he took his family, and they went to live in the land of Moab.
Now Moab was a godless,
country.
They worshiped other gods.
They practiced human sacrifice.
He took his family to go and live there.
You think, why would you take your family to live in that environment?
Well, basically because there was no famine in Moab.
They had plenty.
They had plenty of stuff there going on.
The weather was beautiful.
It was comfortable.
And they took his family and he went there and he lived there.
And the phrase went to live in the country of Moab.
as it says in Scripture, is a very specific phrase.
And what it does is when you look into the Hebrew meaning of those words, it gives the connotation that it was just a temporary thing.
He was doing this as a temporary basis.
He wasn't planning to be there permanently.
He was going there temporary.
But then the very next verse in Scripture says, and when they reached Moab, they settled there.
That word settled means that they actually decided this was where they're gonna stay for the rest of their life.
So in other words, what he did is what started out being a temporary decision ended up being a permanent one.
And so he moved to this place and he lived there permanently.
And then we get to verse three.
In verse three, Emilek died and Naomi was left with her two sons.
Now we get to start to see the beginning of Naomi's sorrows.
Her husband passes away and now with no husband, Naomi is left to provide for herself.
And she still had her two sons.
Their names were Malon and Kylian.
Their names meant sickness and destruction.
So you know it's not going to end well for them.
But that's what she was left with.
And so then in verse four, the two sons married Moabite women.
One married a woman named Orpa.
And the other married one named Ruth.
When you get child gets married, it's like a joyous occasion.
It's a time to celebrate.
It's a time to bring the family together and celebrate these two people coming together as one.
And that was meant to be something that's joyful.
But put yourself in Naomi's position right now.
She's living in Moab.
She couldn't invite her family to come to Moab to be a part of that celebration.
Her sons had now chosen to go and marry foreigners, foreign women.
that weren't part of their culture, didn't have the same beliefs as what they had.
So it wasn't really something that she would be sending out and celebrating with all of her family and friends.
In fact, she didn't really have any family and friends that she could invite because of the shameful decision that her husband had made in moving them to Moab in the first place.
That was just a closed door as far as that was concerned.
So she wasn't able to celebrate there.
And not only did they marry these foreign women,
But Scripture records that for the next 10 years, they also had no kids.
So then we get to verse five, both Malon and Kilian died.
This left Naomi alone without her two sons or a husband.
I don't know whether she lost her two sons on the same day, whether it was spread across a period of time, but they died.
And so now she's left with no husband, no sons, no grandchildren,
no relatives, all she has left with her are these two Moabai daughter-in-laws.
Two people that she never really probably wanted in her family in the first place because they were a constant reminder of the decisions that other people had made.
She was going to be a childless widow living in a foreign country.
And the only way that she would be able to support herself is through the generosity of strangers, basically begging.
people coming up and giving her stuff.
There was no way for her to actually go and support herself in that land in that time.
To a Jewish person reading this story, they would say, they would come to the conclusion that this is what happens to people who abandon God's people in their time of need.
This is the end result of what happens if you abandon God's people and your community, this is what happens to you.
But for Naomi, if you put herself in her shoes, the most frustrating part of all of this for her
was that none of this was her fault.
She didn't make the decision to move to Moab.
She didn't kill her husband.
She didn't choose the wives for her sons.
She wasn't responsible for their infertility.
And she had nothing to do with their deaths.
Yet she was going to be the one that would have to live through all the shame and live through all the consequences of decisions that other people had made for her life.
She was the one that she was had to live through all of this stuff
over things that she had no control over whatsoever.
She was going to have to live through and walk through every single one of those things.
She would have to face the shame, the embarrassment of all of that and live through all of that.
She was going to be the one that was going to be trapped in Moab because of what somebody else had done to her and because of the circumstances that were around her life that she had no control over.
In some ways, it's easier to move on from a mistake that we make.
If I make a mistake, I have the ability to be able to go and make it right.
I can ask for forgiveness.
I can put some things in place to show that I want to make it different.
I can do all of that if it's something that I've caused.
But what about the stuff that happens to us that we aren't responsible for at all?
What about the stuff that takes place in our life and the circumstances that take place in our life?
that we have no control over whatsoever, we just tend to live through the results of all of that.
When I was four, I never asked for my parents to get divorced, yet I was the one that had to live through all the rejection and insecurity that came as a result of that decision that they made in my life.
When I was 13, I've shared it here before, but when I was 13, I was molested.
I had no control over that situation, but I was the one that had to actually walk through
all the shame and all the guilt that came as a result of what happened on that day.
When I was 35, my mom passed away suddenly.
I didn't get to say or build the life that I really wanted to build with her because I didn't really know her, yet I was the one that had to live through all of that after her passing.
When I was 45, I got diagnosed with cancer.
I hadn't expected that.
It kind of came out of the blue, yet I was the one that had to walk through for the next five years with all of these health issues and health things
as I went through all of that.
And I'm sure if we went around this room and we asked people their stories, I'm sure you'd get similar from every single one of us that we've all had to walk through things in our life that we didn't ask for.
We all had to walk through things in our life that maybe we weren't prepared for.
We've all had to walk through circumstances in our lives that we're not even responsible for, yet we end up having to carry that with us through everything that we do.
And for some of us,
Maybe the things like that took place for you in 2025 and you've been having to deal with some of that.
Or maybe for you, they took place way earlier and year after year after year, you're just carrying that with you into the new year and into the next year and carrying that with you.
And we wanted so desperately be able to walk free.
We want so desperately to be able to live the life that God has called us to live, but we ended up feeling like we're trapped in Moab, just like Naomi was.
And if we're not careful those things that we have faced, what ends up happening with those things, they end up shaping us into somebody that God never actually created us to be.
Naomi was called Naomi.
That was her destiny for her life.
But because of the things that she faced, now she wanted to be known as Mara.
And we've got to be so careful, those things that we walk through in life have the ability to shape us and change us from the person that God had created us to be to someone
that maybe it wasn't what he had created for our lives.
Naomi, her disappointment gave way to bitterness.
She blamed God for all the sorrow in her life, but that was just the bitterness talking.
God wasn't responsible for all any of the bad things that took place in her life and God's not responsible for any of the bad things that have taken place in our lives.
That for Naomi's case was just the bitterness that was talking.
This life that we end up living sometimes, we got to understand is not the life that Jesus came to offer us.
In Matthew 11, 28, it says, this come to me, all of you who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest.
But how can I experience that rest when I'm carrying so much disappointment, when I'm carrying all of these other things with me from all the other years?
Naomi found a way to do this.
And we want to look at that today.
In verse six, it simply says this,
I don't want you to miss this.
It's it's so simple, but it's so it's so real and so true.
In verse six, then Naomi heard in Moab that the Lord had blessed these people in Judah by giving them good crops again.
So Naomi and her daughter-in-law got ready to leave Moab to return to their homeland.
It's so simple, but we can miss it sometimes.
While she was still stuck in Moab, she heard once again that God was back.
moving amongst their people.
And what had been a time of famine was now turning and they were entering into a time of prosperity.
And she heard about that and she heard that God was at work.
So rather than staying bitter in Moab, she made a decision to return back to Bethlehem.
Even though things had been terrible for her and nothing had changed around her life, she made a decision to reposition herself, to relocate to a place
where God was moving.
In other words, she made a decision to draw closer to God.
In that simple moment, she made a decision just to say, I'm gonna go closer to where God is.
Do you understand how incredible that decision actually is?
Nothing had changed around her life.
It wasn't like things got better.
So now she decided to lean more into God.
She still carried the bitterness.
She still had all of those things that had taken place in her life, but she made a decision
to draw closer to God.
That's so huge.
She wasn't waiting until everything was right or until the circumstances improve.
She decided that she was going to go and move forward even without answers.
In James four verse eight, it says this, come close to God and God will come close to you.
I love that verse.
Come close to God and God will come close to you.
What would your life look like in 12 months time?
If we were able to put that into practice,
on a daily basis in 2026, what would your marriage look like?
What would your attitude towards your boss or work look like?
What would your relationship with the people around you look like?
If you made the decision, I'm gonna draw closer to God.
What would your relationships with your kids look like if I made the decision that I was gonna draw closer to God?
So many of us get stuck in Moab and all the things that have happened to us
They end up shaping us into somebody that God had not created us to be.
But what would happen if in 2026 we decided that we're going to move closer to God?
Your circumstances may not change overnight.
In fact, they probably won't change overnight.
But the one thing that will change is something will change on the inside of you.
All of a sudden, you'll go from feeling like you're all alone to all of a sudden realizing I've got a Heavenly Father who had a plan and a purpose for my life.
He held me in his arms and he looked at my life and he saw a picture of what my life could be.
And whether that mirrors it right now or not, he calls out over my life what my life should be.
When he looks at my life, he doesn't say that I'm weak.
He doesn't say that he looks at my life.
He says, no, no, you're victorious.
When he looks at my life, he says, no, no, you're strong.
You're an overcomer.
You're all of those things.
You're a new creation.
All it takes is us to draw close to Him.
You know, for some of you, you're already doing this.
That's so awesome.
Some of you already put this into practice.
This is something that is a daily habit for you or it's something that you do on a regular basis where your intention of your heart is, I just want to get closer to God.
For some of you, you're doing that, which is amazing.
Keep going.
Keep making that this priority for this year, for 2026.
And for others of us, we struggle.
And when I talk about things like this, you think, oh, maybe I've got a tomorrow when I wake up, I've got to start doing a 40 day fast.
Maybe that's what it means to draw closer to God.
Maybe it means I've got to read the Bible from cover to cover this year.
Maybe it means I need to go and be a missionary somewhere and do that.
Maybe that's what it means to draw closer.
And we go to an extreme and we go somewhere way over to the left and we think, well, that's what I've got to do.
But maybe for you, drawing closer to God is simply when you wake up tomorrow morning
Instead of reaching for your phone, you just lie there and go, hey God, and talk to him.
Spend a couple minutes just talking to him before you pick up your phone.
Maybe that's what it means for you to draw closer to God.
Maybe when you're in the shower, rather than just having a blank mind or worrying about the day or anything else like that, why don't you just talk to God?
Hey God, and just have a conversation with him.
Tell him what you're feeling, tell him what you're going through.
Maybe as you're driving to work,
rather than just putting on the radio and listening to something and it's just noise that's out there.
Turn off the noise and just start to listen to God and talk to God.
Draw close to God.
Wonder what that looks like for you and your Mondays and your Tuesdays.
I want to give you something today that's like super practical and something that you can take with you into the year.
For me, the thing that I've found that's helped me the most when it comes to drawing close to God is actually getting into the Word of God and reading the Word of God.
Sometimes that can be a very daunting thing, particularly if you're not a reader, and I wouldn't call myself a reader.
You could struggle with that.
I run a group for men in Aurelia, and a bunch of great guys, but all of us have the same thing.
All the answers that we need for life are in the Word of God, but we don't open it to be able to read it.
So we set about reading it together.
And so one of the things that I've found for my life that's been a strength for my life, it's not about how much you read, it's about what you do with what you read.
So what I started to do is I used to have incredible anxiety and insecurity when it comes to doing this and speaking from the front.
And what used to happen is that anytime I would come up on a platform to speak to people about Jesus, the thought that would go through my head because of what had happened to me years ago was what right do I have to stand up here and tell people about Jesus knowing all the things that I had done wrong in my life.
And that thought would just
it would cripple me because I would get up here and I would fumble and I wouldn't know what to say.
And half the time I would even not even come up here.
I would make excuses and I would say to, oh, you should get that person to go and speak because they're so good.
They're amazing and everything else.
And I would push other people up because I didn't want to get up here because that thought was just too overwhelming.
Until the day I opened up my Bible and I read 2nd Corinthians 517, it says, if any man is in Christ,
He's a new creation.
Old things have passed away and all things have become new.
That one verse changed my life completely because now when I came up on here, I had a choice to make.
I could choose to listen to the lie that was coming into my head about who I was and what I could do and everything else.
Or I could choose to believe what God said about me in His Word, where He said that my past is gone.
It's forgiven and I'm a brand new creation.
I could choose to believe that or I could choose to believe the other.
And so what I did is I wrote out that verse.
I memorized that verse.
I wrote it everywhere I could, everywhere my eyes were gonna be.
I put that verse there.
So it was the thing that I saw first thing in the morning, the last thing at night.
I memorized that verse.
I weaponized that verse so that when I came up to here, that was the first thing that came to my mind when that contrary thought came in about who I was and what I could do.
And after a while of using that verse as a weapon, those thoughts stop coming.
And I know that's true for not just that verse in Scripture.
There's a whole Bible full of verses that all we need to do is open our Bible and read it and whatever it is that you're struggling with and whatever it is that you're going through, the answer that you need, the verse that you need is in there.
We just have to open the Bible to be able to go and do that.
So what I did for my guys to make it easier for them is I put a book together.
And all it is is all the verses that I've found so far for my life, just at the top of the page, and then a whole blank space underneath, and they can write whatever they want to write, share whatever they want to share, and they're just doing that.
And so we're just working through different verses that are there, and that they could start to write them out, memorize them, learn them, weaponize them for their own lives.
And I thought it'd be so good if I could get that to everybody today.
So in the seat pockets in front of you, you'll see a card that looks like that.
It's the Take a Step card.
If you scan that QR code, a digital copy of that book will come onto your device.
So you can take that.
If you're online, you can get it from the QR code that's on the screen there as well and use that as a tool to be able to help you to be able to walk and draw closer to God this next year.
This isn't the only way to draw closer to God, but it's a way that I've found that's helped me a lot to be able to do that.
Maybe there's other tools.
Maybe there's other things out there that you can use.
Maybe there's things that you've started using that you can try.
Whatever it is that you're doing, all I'm saying to you is do something.
Don't just let another year go by being trapped in Moab, but make a decision to put yourself in a place and draw closer to God in 2026.
I'm not talking about a New Year's resolution because those things tend to die out mid January sometime.
Mine died out like a day ago.
But they tend to die out pretty quick.
But I'm talking about making a decision to say, yeah, this is what I'm going to do.
In verse 22, it says this.
So Naomi returned from Moab accompanied by her daughter-in-law Ruth, the young Moabite woman.
They arrived in Bethlehem in the late spring at the beginning of the barley harvest.
I love this.
The writer of Ruth is being very intentional with their language.
They arrived in late spring at the beginning of the barley harvest.
In other words, Naomi was just about to enter into a brand new season.
She was coming into something new, something fresh, something she hadn't experienced for a long, long time.
And as you read ahead in the story, you discover that God took that mole bite girl named Ruth and used that relationship.
And so,
That was all that Naomi had when she left Moab, but when she arrived, Ruth ended up marrying a guy named Boaz from Bethlehem.
Naomi goes on to be the grandmother of Obed, the great-grandmother of Jesse, and the great-great-grandmother of David, who was the greatest king in Israel's history.
And then when you follow that family line all the way down, a thousand years later, in the same city of Bethlehem was born our Savior Jesus.
All because of this woman made a decision
draw closer to God.
We don't know the effects that the decisions that we make today have on future generations.
We don't know what that is, but we have a responsibility right now to actually say, yeah, God, am I going to still stay in Moab or am I going to return?
And am I going to draw closer to you in 2026?
For me,
That's my prayer for all of us today.
You know, the funniest thing is despite Naomi insisting that people call her Mara, as you read through the book of Ruth, you won't find any instance where anyone refers to her as Mara because that wasn't her name.
And whatever it is that you want to call yourself, whatever it is that you've been through, whatever is trying to mold you or shape you, that's not who God has called you to be.
He's called you to be victorious, the overcomer.
He's called you to be a new creation.
You're strong, bold, righteous, fearless, victorious and free.
Don't let the things that have happened to you mold you into someone that God never created you to be, but instead let 2026 be the year that you choose to draw closer to God.
Now I understand in this room here, you might be here for the very first time and you're hearing all of this and maybe you'll hear at Christmas Eve and you hear about this now and you're hearing all of this and you think, well, that's all sounds great, but
You don't know some of the things that I've done in my life and you don't know the things that have happened in my life.
You know the amazing thing about James 4.8 where it says draw close to God and he will draw close to you is that he draws close to us first because the Bible says God so loved the world that he sent his only son that whoever believes in him would not perish but have everlasting life.
In other words, God took a move towards you before you even took a move towards him.
And now in response to that we can draw closer
to Him.
And so maybe today, that's the decision that you need to make.
Maybe the decision for you is like, okay, for me drawing closer to God, the first thing I need to do is it's a step of surrender.
And I just need to open my heart up to Jesus.
And in a minute, we're gonna pray and we're gonna give an invitation for that.
But for all of us here today, my heart's prayer is that we would all make a decision.
2026 is the year we choose to draw closer to God.
It's the year we choose to draw closer to God.
And if that's you today and you want to be included in a prayer like that, I would love to be able to pray with you.
So why don't we close our eyes together?
Well, no one's looking around.
I just want to give you a little bit of privacy and a little bit of space.
Maybe you're in that first group of people and for today, you've never made a decision to ask Jesus to be your Lord and Savior and to open up your heart to Him.
Maybe today's the day for you to do that.
And if that's you today, I would love you just to slip your hand in the air and put it down again, just so I know who I'm praying for.
We're going to include you in this prayer.
That's it.
Those hands going up in Aurelia.
Then you put your hand back down again once you put it up.
For the rest of us, maybe this year is the year that you choose to actually draw closer to God.
And you want to make a commitment today to say, yeah, that's what I want to do this year.
I want this to be the year that I draw closer to God.
Whatever that looks like, whatever form that takes, I want to make a commitment that tomorrow morning when I wake up, God, I just want to draw closer to you today.
If that's you here today, I want to pray for you as well.
And I would love to include you in that prayer.
You just give me a wave.
You say, yeah, that's me, Joseph.
I want to be among those people that are doing that.
I want to draw closer to God this year.
That's it.
Hands are going up everywhere.
You can put your hand down once you put it back up again.
God, today you see all of these people, all of these hands that have gone up.
Lord, not only here, but those at home online and those in Aurelia, Lord God.
Lord, I just pray for each and every one of these decisions today.
God, that you would walk with us as we step into 2026, that you would walk with us and you would go before us and God, today,
I just thank You, Lord, for every one of these lives, that You would give us the strength, that You would give us the courage, Lord, to be able to move forward.
Lord, we put our eyes and we put our attention on You.
We love You, God, and we say thank You for sending Jesus.
Thank You for making a way that we can come to know Him in such a very real and such a very powerful way.
We surrender our hearts to You today and we pray this in Jesus' name.